# The Deep Kingdom

In a time before time dwarves, gnomes and orcs all lived underground, building vast tunnel systems over the millennia, mining, founding cities and kingdoms, warring and trading with each other and the surface folks. At least if we can trust the fables and stories that all claim this all happened many thousand years ago; the vast dwarf mine-cities, the rickety orc villages, the gemstone-encrusted, finely chiselled gnome castles were all left uninhabited and are still crumbling if not entirely swallowed up by the ravages of time. The descendants of their erstwhile residents moved up to the surface, joining the people already there to found new cities, new realms or just melted into the general hubbub of surface cities.

But even many generations later there are always people, almost always young people filled with restlessness and enthralled by the legends of the past, who are seeking for a way to return to the land of their ancestors.

Nobody knows when the first group of youngsters got together, which crumbling passage they discovered and entered, when their first underground camp was established, nor how many they were. What is certain is that the sons and daughters of the three ancestries set out together to build themselves a new home and discover the traces of the past.

The orcs stayed closest to the surface, they excelled in building new communities and keeping in contact with the surface, not that all that contact was friendly but the new orc tribes, just as their forebears, never shirked a fight.

The gnomes found their calling in seeking out the ruins of old civilisations, and the dwarves relaid the foundations of the economy, excavating new mine shafts and opening old ones.

While everybody calls this realm **The Deep Kingdom**, it has never had anything resembling a king. In fact it can hardly be called a realm cos while its inhabitants are constantly exploring the old tunnels and cities, pushing ever further and establishing a vast underground network, there is no central power to speak of. Each settlement is proudly independent and while there is the occasional armed conflict between neigbours, due to the terrain nothing like a full-scale war is possible. If there is anything holding this realm together, it's constant trading (as few settlements can be self-sufficient in food for example) and their response to any external threat. If anywhere in the Deep Kingdom is under attack from the surface, runners are dispatched through the tunnels to all neighbouring communities, who immediately dispatch armed groups to help out and their own runners, deeper and deeper in the realm...

And this kind of attack isn't rare, as the riches of the deep are just too tempting, there's always a ruler who thinks: why pay for all this stuff when I can just take it by force? Accordingly people from the surface kingdoms aren't very popular round here, the denizens of **The Deep Kingdom** eye their emissaries with suspicion at best. The only exception, somewhat surprisingly, is [The Sylvan Alliance](world:realms:sylvan_alliance:realm), thanks to their similar ethos and of course the complete lack of any territorial claims. In fact there were even wars where the surface attackers storming an entrance tunnel of the Kingdom were welcomed by a surprise volley of elven arrows.
